this is the freshly dead carcass of a
30-ton gray whale its resting on the sea
floor a mile down it's only been on the
bottom for six weeks but already it has
attracted hundreds of hagfish these
ancient scavengers are nearly always the
first to discover a fallen body that are
attracted from miles around they lack
jaws and rasp at the flesh with two rows
of horny teeth on either side of their
sucker-like mouth next to arrive a
sleeper shark a real deep-sea specialist
they grow to over seven metres long and
have never been filmed at such a depth
before the gaping wounds and the whales
fountain are its work
unlike the hagfish it has powerful jaws
so is able to rip off huge chunks of
meat
sharks hagfish and a whole succession of
different deep-sea scavengers will feast
on the carcass for years before all his
nutriment has gone 18 months later when
we return to this whale all that was
left was a perfect skeleton stripped
bare
it was almost as if a museum specimen
had been carefully laid out on the
seafloor
at first the skeleton seemed totally
abandoned but even after so long there
was still some flesh left in the head
[Music]
hagfish have a skeleton of cartilage and
are so flexible that they can tie
themselves into knots and so get a
better purchase on the flesh they feed
on but smaller organisms had fed here a
thick band of white bacteria had formed
on the mud outlining the original shape
of the whale and on the skeleton itself
colonies of specialized bacteria were
extracting energy from the bones
themselves most remarkably and in huge
abundance Pollock eat worms were
collecting the last edible fragments
these are a new species that so far have
only been found on the Fallen bodies of
whales
scientists have discovered 178 different
animals on a single whale vertebra most
of which have been found nowhere else
[Music]